---
title: 'Week 258: Stacking Rocks'
category: news
tags: weeknotes, agency, management, skills
author: hans
---

We are undertaking small projects both internal and for clients lately. In times like these, the "overhead" of project management takes a greater fraction of our energy than when we have larger engagements.

There's nothing triggering this week, but let me share a recurring thought I have. It is natural for people to consider the skills they have in their titled discipline as valuable in their own right. But anyone who wants to be productive beyond simple tasks needs to be able to manage themselves, or be paired with a manager to hover over their shoulder all day.

I think of these as _rock stacking_ skills. They are simple and universal so apply not only when you're asked to "flesh out a detailed profile editing flow," but also when the job is "move this stack of rocks from here to there."

What do you need to determine when a client or manager asks you to move some rocks? Things like:

- Where are the rocks now?
- Where are they to end up?
- Do we need to do anything to prepare the ground for the new stack?
- Do we need to do anything to clean up after the old stack?
- Should the new stack have a specific configuration? Is height or stability more important?
- Who is going to be judging the appearance of the stack?
- How many rocks are there? Are we moving all of them?
- How long does it take us to move one rock? Are they mostly similar?
- How many of us can do this at once before we run into each other?
- Do we expect to get faster or slower with time?
- How will we measure our progress? Speed?
- When should we revisit the plan and who should we communicate with?
- How often should we ask them to review the stack in progress?

It is easy to go on and on to make this sound like a deep skill, but really the simple intuition of questioning what the job entails is key. Unfortunately, in my experience this is vanishingly rare among businesspeople, designers, developers, and other people who don't have _project_ in their title.

Designers are, at least, at a slight advantage; it is natural for them to ask "why are we moving these rocks, anyway?"
